_pages/events.md, before:

---
permalink: /events/
title: "Events"
toc: true
toc_sticky: true
excerpt: >
  The AAPHN collates information regarding upcoming invents of interest to public history enthusiasts and practitioners and also sends out a bi-annual Newsletter summarising the year and looking forward to the future.
---
_If you would like to list your own event with the AAPHN, please get in touch with <aaphn@mq.edu.au>_

## Upcoming Events
### History Weeks
**History Week (NSW) 2022**
: **Event Description**: History Week is the annual, state-wide celebration of History organised by the History Council of New South Wales. Initiated by the HCNSW in 1997, History Week is a fantastic opportunity for member organisations, large and small, throughout NSW to engage and educate the community about the vitality, diversity and meaning of History and its practice. The HCNSW has chosen to go with the theme ‘Hands-on History’ which was suggested by Dr Kiera Lindsey for our History Week 2022 Theme Suggestion Competition. For History Week 2022 we invite you to roll up your sleeves and get your hands dirty! History doesn’t only happen in archives, libraries and books. Very often we need to go out in the field and get hands-on to connect with different sources, stories and audiences. Hands-on History invites you to explore histories by or about people who do things with their hands, whether that is for work or play. You may also like to creatively consider how you use your hands to do history; be that digging up artefacts, uncovering archives, restoring precious and everyday objects, curating exhibitions, writing and drawing, sewing, painting, even making music or a film or podcast! We want you to re-think Hands-on History and present your ideas in History Week 2022.
: **When**: 3–-11 September 2022
: **Where**: Various events online and in person ran by NSW institutions. See links below for event calendar.
: **2022 Info**: [https://historycouncilnsw.org.au/history-week-nsw/history-week-2022/](https://historycouncilnsw.org.au/history-week-nsw/history-week-2022/){:target="_blank"}
: **General Info**: [https://historycouncilnsw.org.au/history-week-nsw/](https://historycouncilnsw.org.au/history-week-nsw/){:target="_blank"}
: **Macquarie University Events**: "Macquarie is celebrating History Week 2022 with a range of events, workshops and discussions that celebrate Macquarie’s rich connection to the past.
From handling objects out of the Macquarie University History Museum collection, a discussion on the temporary exhibition ‘East Meets West: The Crusades and the Age of Decolonisation’ with museum tours following, a book sale and a catered celebration to round-out the week –- there’s something for everyone." More information is available on [the Macquarie University web page](https://www.mq.edu.au/thisweek/2022/08/24/history-week-2022/){:target"_blank"}

### Seminar Series and Talks
**Auckland Libraries: Heritage _Talks_ / Waha Pū-Taonga**
: **Event Description**: These talks are presented fortnightly on a Wednesday at 12 noon NZT from February to November, and topics cover a wide range of subjects relation to history. Social, local and family history, New Zealand, Australian and world history. Sometimes if something special is offered, we also schedule talks on the “off” Wednesday. Speakers are a mix of amateur and professional historians, archivists, librarians, museum specialists, authors and academics.
: Our talks are held **in-person** (subject to the COVID restrictions), and **also held live via Zoom**. We have been streaming our talks via Zoom since the first lockdown in March 2020, and they have been very successful. This means that our talks can still go-ahead even if we have a lockdown. Also we are really fortunate that this also means that our guest speakers don’t have to be in Auckland, nor even in New Zealand! Our audience is also much more geographically diverse.
: **CFP**: Heritage _Talks_ is also seeking speakers for the second half of the year – June to November.
: **When**: Wednesday at 12 noon NZT from February to November.
: **YouTube**: [Auckland Libraries YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/user/aucklandlibraries){:target="_blank"}
: **More Information**: [Auckland Libraries website](https://www.aucklandlibraries.govt.nz/Pages/family-and-local-history-events.aspx){:target="_blank"}
: **Contact**: <Seonaid.Harvey@aucklandcouncil.govt.nz>

**Explorers by the IFPH / FIHP**
: **Event Description**: Series of monthly talks and events ran by the [IFPH / FIHP](https://ifph.hypotheses.org/){:target="_blank"}. This is a space devoted to promoting research and building bridges between public historians around the world. Our goal is to encourage communication and open pathways to advance the field. To achieve this goal we do monthly events with academics, intellectuals, artists, and activists interested in the public history field. Attached you will find a brief summary of the project and the events we have done so far.
: **Registration**: Contact us or <jimenaperry@gmail.com> for the Zoom link.
: **Contact**: <jimenaperry@gmail.com>

**The Wilson History Oration**
: **Event Description**: Associate Professor Tanya Evans will present the inaugural Wilson History Oration for Professional Historians Australia. The Oration is an annual online lecture for an eminent speaker to reflect and share experiences on history research, writing and audience engagement. Tanya’s presentation will take a deep dive into a multi-faceted approach to public history. The oration will be centred on one of Tanya’s current projects – an historic site in the Blue Mountains in NSW – and she will discuss her collaboration with local and family historians, environmental specialists, heritage practitioners and archaeologists.
: The Oration has been established in memory of Dr Bill Wilson OAM (1942-2021). Bill Wilson’s support for the field of public history and the work of professional historians in Australia was inspiring. Throughout his career in history Bill was a diplomatic and personable leader and an innovative administrator.
: **Paper Title**: 'Out of the Blue: collaborative and community-based history in Australia'
: **When**: 2 June 2022, 5.30-6.30 pm AEDT
: **Where**: Online
: **Registration** Book [here](https://phavic.wildapricot.org/event-4818153){:target="_blank"}
: **More Information**: [https://phavic.wildapricot.org/event-4818153](https://phavic.wildapricot.org/event-4818153){:target="_blank"}

**WWII in the Asia-Pacific: Border Crossing Mobilities**
: **Event Description**: Two-day online workshop which focuses on international mobilities and migration as a way to understand the impacts of WWII across the Asia-Pacific region. The workshop is a joint project between The University of Notre Dame (Australia), the University of Wollongong, and Ritsumeikan University (Japan).
: **When**: 18-19 July 2022.
: **Contact and more Information**: [http://www.ritsumei.ac.jp/research/ihhss/events/article.html/?id=77](http://www.ritsumei.ac.jp/research/ihhss/events/article.html/?id=77){:target="_blank"}

### Call For Papers
**The New Historians Conference 2022**
: **Event Description**: In the context of the pandemic and the immediate period that follows, there is a requirement to take a pause and understand the change, recalibrate, and prepare for what comes next. At the same time there are some things that remain constant, continuities that run strong through the before and after. The New Historians Conference 2022 is focused on the idea of change and continuity. We encourage contributions that concern any region of the world and speak to the conference theme from interdisciplinary perspectives. The invitation extends to researchers grounded in a variety of fields – history, anthropology, geography, international relations, linguistics, literature, philosophy, political science, sociology, Māori studies, and other social sciences. We are interested in papers that address: 1. the idea of change and continuity in cultural, social, political, or linguistic systems; 2. the agents, catalysts, or barriers to change and the struggle to control the direction of change; 3. the reception and impact of change across different time periods; 4. any parts of your larger research project where questions of change and continuity are explored. Proposals that delve into conversations about the impact of COVID-19 on various aspects of
life across diverse spaces in the globe will be a valuable addition to the discussion.
: **When**: 19th–20th October 2022 (tentative)
: **CFP Deadline**: 15th August 2022
: **Apply**: Send 300 word abstract and short biographical note to <NewHistorians@vuw.ac.nz>
: **Where**: Victoria University of Wellington – Te Herenga Waka (hybrid delivery)
: **More Information**: [https://phanza.org.nz/call-for-papers-the-new-historians-conference-2022/](https://phanza.org.nz/call-for-papers-the-new-historians-conference-2022/){:target="_blank"}.
: **Contact**: <NewHistorians@vuw.ac.nz>

**Public and applied history in the classroom: Australian contexts**
: **Event Description**: Hosted as a collaboration between the [Centre for Applied History (Macquarie University)](https://www.mq.edu.au/research/research-centres-groups-and-facilities/resilient-societies/centres/centre-for-applied-history){:target="_blank"} and the Tertiary History Educators Association (THEA, [University of Newcastle](https://www.newcastle.edu.au/){:target="_blank"}), you are invited to attend a symposium for history education academics, public historians, historians, and other interested researchers at Macquarie University Sydney City Campus, Friday, 24 June 2022. The focus of the symposium is _public and applied history in the classroom_. The aim is to investigate those pedagogies, practices, ideas and theories that are effective in teaching history in the classroom. Here, the definition of classrooms includes tertiary, secondary, and primary schools as well as classrooms that exist outside of the formal or traditional ‘four walls’ of an educational institution. The symposium will provide tertiary-based academics including history teaching educators, historians, public historians and others interested in the study and application of history the opportunity to meet, to discuss current issues, share research interests, and to discuss opportunities for collaboration into the future. Symposium presentations will be 20 minutes with 5 minutes for questions. Presenters will also be invited to submit an expression of interest to publish their presentation as a [Public History Weekly (PHW)](https://public-historyweekly.degruyter.com/){:target="_blank"} piece.
: **When**: Friday 24th June 2022
: **CFP Deadline**: Friday 25th March (250 word abstract)
: **Registration Deadline**: Friday 6th May
: **Where**: Macquarie University Sydney Campus
: **More Information**: PDF of the full CFP is available [here]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/files/cfp_cah_thea_symposium.pdf){:target="_blank"}.
: **Contact**: <thea@newcastle.edu.au>

**6th World Conference of the International Federation for Public History**
: **Event Description**: From 16 to 20 August 2022 the 6th World Conference of the International Federation for Public History (IFPH) will take place in Berlin. The German capital, which has been called the “Rome of contemporary history”, is an ideal location for a major meeting of public historians from across the globe. Like few other cities in the world it offers many different layers of history, that not only still matter and are controversial locally or regionally, but nationally and even internationally. The conference will be hosted at the [Freie Universität Berlin](https://www.fu-berlin.de/en/index.html){:target="_blank"}, where the first German MA program in Public History was established. It is located in the Southwestern part of the city. Our partners are the [National Council on Public History](https://ncph.org/){:target="_blank"}, the world’s largest public history organization, the [German Historical Association](https://www.historikerverband.de/){:target="_blank"} (VHD) and its working group on applied / public history ([AGPH](https://agph.hypotheses.org/internationales){:target="_blank"}), the [American Historical Association](https://www.historians.org/){:target="_blank"} and the [Leibniz Centre for Contemporary History in Potsdam](https://zzf-potsdam.de/en/institution/leibniz-centre-contemporary-history-potsdam){:target="_blank"} (ZZF). The full call for papers is available [here](https://www.ifph2020.berlin/_media/CFP_2022.pdf){:target="_blank"}.
: **CFP Deadline**: [15th February](https://www.ifph2020.berlin/proposal-submission/index.html){:target="_blank"}.
: **When**: 16th to 20th August 2022
: **Where**: [Freie Universität Berlin](https://www.fu-berlin.de/en/index.html){:target="_blank"}
: **Website**: [https://www.ifph2020.berlin/index.html](https://www.ifph2020.berlin/index.html){:target="_blank"}
: **Contact**: <info@ifph2020.berlin>

## Past Events
**AAPHN '21 Social Meet and Greet**
: **Event Description** We are happy to announce our first network event! We will be hosting an AAPHN Zoom social gathering. The Zoom will provide an opportunity for our members (and any individuals considering signing up) to learn more about the network and each other. We hope to provide an opportunity for members to share ideas and get to know one another and their projects.
: **When** Wednesday the 20th of October 5-6pm

## Newsletter and Communications
In addition to general membership communications and updates, we send out a newsletter bi-annually which records any upcoming events concerning public history in Australasia. If you would like to make a post about an upcoming event or would like for it to be included in our next newsletter, please contact the AAPHN team at <aaphn@mq.edu.au>. Also, keep updated on our social media, where we post and share information concerning many upcoming events. Twitter: [@aaphnetwork](https://twitter.com/aaphnetwork){:target="_blank"}.

Commit message:

new event in melbourne uni

_pages/events.md, after:

---
permalink: /events/
title: "Events"
toc: true
toc_sticky: true
excerpt: >
  The AAPHN collates information regarding upcoming invents of interest to public history enthusiasts and practitioners and also sends out a bi-annual Newsletter summarising the year and looking forward to the future.
---
_If you would like to list your own event with the AAPHN, please get in touch with <aaphn@mq.edu.au>_

## Upcoming Events
### History Weeks
**History Week (NSW) 2022**
: **Event Description**: History Week is the annual, state-wide celebration of History organised by the History Council of New South Wales. Initiated by the HCNSW in 1997, History Week is a fantastic opportunity for member organisations, large and small, throughout NSW to engage and educate the community about the vitality, diversity and meaning of History and its practice. The HCNSW has chosen to go with the theme ‘Hands-on History’ which was suggested by Dr Kiera Lindsey for our History Week 2022 Theme Suggestion Competition. For History Week 2022 we invite you to roll up your sleeves and get your hands dirty! History doesn’t only happen in archives, libraries and books. Very often we need to go out in the field and get hands-on to connect with different sources, stories and audiences. Hands-on History invites you to explore histories by or about people who do things with their hands, whether that is for work or play. You may also like to creatively consider how you use your hands to do history; be that digging up artefacts, uncovering archives, restoring precious and everyday objects, curating exhibitions, writing and drawing, sewing, painting, even making music or a film or podcast! We want you to re-think Hands-on History and present your ideas in History Week 2022.
: **When**: 3–-11 September 2022
: **Where**: Various events online and in person ran by NSW institutions. See links below for event calendar.
: **2022 Info**: [https://historycouncilnsw.org.au/history-week-nsw/history-week-2022/](https://historycouncilnsw.org.au/history-week-nsw/history-week-2022/){:target="_blank"}
: **General Info**: [https://historycouncilnsw.org.au/history-week-nsw/](https://historycouncilnsw.org.au/history-week-nsw/){:target="_blank"}
: **Macquarie University Events**: "Macquarie is celebrating History Week 2022 with a range of events, workshops and discussions that celebrate Macquarie’s rich connection to the past.
From handling objects out of the Macquarie University History Museum collection, a discussion on the temporary exhibition ‘East Meets West: The Crusades and the Age of Decolonisation’ with museum tours following, a book sale and a catered celebration to round-out the week –- there’s something for everyone." More information is available on [the Macquarie University web page](https://www.mq.edu.au/thisweek/2022/08/24/history-week-2022/){:target"_blank"}

### Seminar Series and Talks
**Mothering in Crisis: Family, Disaster and Climate Change**
: Join us to hear the initial findings of "Mothering in Crisis", a Melbourne Climate Futures CRX Project headed by Dr Carla Pascoe Leahy and Dr Julia Hurst. Climate change is sparking more frequent and more intense environmental disasters, with worse forecast across this century. As a population group with a heightened care burden during disasters, as well as an explicit investment in the future in the form of their children, mothers are particularly impacted by worsening environmental crises. Yet we know very little about how Australian mothers are experiencing the climate-fuelled disasters of the twenty-first century, how their experiences compare to other time periods, and what kinds of support would benefit families in an era of radical environmental change.
: This free seminar will present the findings from the first stage of "Mothering in Crisis", a project led by Dr Carla Pascoe Leahy and Dr Julia Hurst. Funded by Melbourne Climate Futures CRX (Climate Research Accelerator) at the University of Melbourne, the project fills a critical research gap into mothers’ experiences in a period of rapid environmental change. Presentation of project findings and discussion time will be followed by lunch. Both in-person* and online participation is available.
: **When**: Friday 2 December 2022, 12-2pm
: **Where**: Online and in-person at Latham Theatre (Room 102), Redmond Barry Building, the University of Melbourne, Parkville Campus. 
: **Registration**: <https://www.eventbrite.com.au/e/mothering-in-crisis-family-disaster-and-climate-change-tickets-420962960547>{:target="_blank"} 
: **Schedule**:
: 12pm - 1.15pm- Prof Kathryn Bower, Melbourne Climate Futures, University of Melbourne - Welcome; followed by Research Presentations & Questions
: 1.15-2pm - Lunch (vegan/vegetarian - catered by the Asylum Seeker Resource Centre)
: **Presenters**:
: Dr Carla Pascoe Leahy, Lecturer in Family History, University of Tasmania and Honorary Fellow, University of Melbourne
: Dr Anisa Puri, Research Assistant, University of Melbourne
: Catherine Gay, PhD Candidate, University of Melbourne
: **Flyer**: [PDF of flyer is available here]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/files/Mothering_in_Crisis_Seminar.pdf){:target="_blank"}

**Auckland Libraries: Heritage _Talks_ / Waha Pū-Taonga**
: **Event Description**: These talks are presented fortnightly on a Wednesday at 12 noon NZT from February to November, and topics cover a wide range of subjects relation to history. Social, local and family history, New Zealand, Australian and world history. Sometimes if something special is offered, we also schedule talks on the “off” Wednesday. Speakers are a mix of amateur and professional historians, archivists, librarians, museum specialists, authors and academics.
: Our talks are held **in-person** (subject to the COVID restrictions), and **also held live via Zoom**. We have been streaming our talks via Zoom since the first lockdown in March 2020, and they have been very successful. This means that our talks can still go-ahead even if we have a lockdown. Also we are really fortunate that this also means that our guest speakers don’t have to be in Auckland, nor even in New Zealand! Our audience is also much more geographically diverse.
: **CFP**: Heritage _Talks_ is also seeking speakers for the second half of the year – June to November.
: **When**: Wednesday at 12 noon NZT from February to November.
: **YouTube**: [Auckland Libraries YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/user/aucklandlibraries){:target="_blank"}
: **More Information**: [Auckland Libraries website](https://www.aucklandlibraries.govt.nz/Pages/family-and-local-history-events.aspx){:target="_blank"}
: **Contact**: <Seonaid.Harvey@aucklandcouncil.govt.nz>

**Explorers by the IFPH / FIHP**
: **Event Description**: Series of monthly talks and events ran by the [IFPH / FIHP](https://ifph.hypotheses.org/){:target="_blank"}. This is a space devoted to promoting research and building bridges between public historians around the world. Our goal is to encourage communication and open pathways to advance the field. To achieve this goal we do monthly events with academics, intellectuals, artists, and activists interested in the public history field. Attached you will find a brief summary of the project and the events we have done so far.
: **Registration**: Contact us or <jimenaperry@gmail.com> for the Zoom link.
: **Contact**: <jimenaperry@gmail.com>

**The Wilson History Oration**
: **Event Description**: Associate Professor Tanya Evans will present the inaugural Wilson History Oration for Professional Historians Australia. The Oration is an annual online lecture for an eminent speaker to reflect and share experiences on history research, writing and audience engagement. Tanya’s presentation will take a deep dive into a multi-faceted approach to public history. The oration will be centred on one of Tanya’s current projects – an historic site in the Blue Mountains in NSW – and she will discuss her collaboration with local and family historians, environmental specialists, heritage practitioners and archaeologists.
: The Oration has been established in memory of Dr Bill Wilson OAM (1942-2021). Bill Wilson’s support for the field of public history and the work of professional historians in Australia was inspiring. Throughout his career in history Bill was a diplomatic and personable leader and an innovative administrator.
: **Paper Title**: 'Out of the Blue: collaborative and community-based history in Australia'
: **When**: 2 June 2022, 5.30-6.30 pm AEDT
: **Where**: Online
: **Registration** Book [here](https://phavic.wildapricot.org/event-4818153){:target="_blank"}
: **More Information**: [https://phavic.wildapricot.org/event-4818153](https://phavic.wildapricot.org/event-4818153){:target="_blank"}

**WWII in the Asia-Pacific: Border Crossing Mobilities**
: **Event Description**: Two-day online workshop which focuses on international mobilities and migration as a way to understand the impacts of WWII across the Asia-Pacific region. The workshop is a joint project between The University of Notre Dame (Australia), the University of Wollongong, and Ritsumeikan University (Japan).
: **When**: 18-19 July 2022.
: **Contact and more Information**: [http://www.ritsumei.ac.jp/research/ihhss/events/article.html/?id=77](http://www.ritsumei.ac.jp/research/ihhss/events/article.html/?id=77){:target="_blank"}

### Call For Papers
**The New Historians Conference 2022**
: **Event Description**: In the context of the pandemic and the immediate period that follows, there is a requirement to take a pause and understand the change, recalibrate, and prepare for what comes next. At the same time there are some things that remain constant, continuities that run strong through the before and after. The New Historians Conference 2022 is focused on the idea of change and continuity. We encourage contributions that concern any region of the world and speak to the conference theme from interdisciplinary perspectives. The invitation extends to researchers grounded in a variety of fields – history, anthropology, geography, international relations, linguistics, literature, philosophy, political science, sociology, Māori studies, and other social sciences. We are interested in papers that address: 1. the idea of change and continuity in cultural, social, political, or linguistic systems; 2. the agents, catalysts, or barriers to change and the struggle to control the direction of change; 3. the reception and impact of change across different time periods; 4. any parts of your larger research project where questions of change and continuity are explored. Proposals that delve into conversations about the impact of COVID-19 on various aspects of
life across diverse spaces in the globe will be a valuable addition to the discussion.
: **When**: 19th–20th October 2022 (tentative)
: **CFP Deadline**: 15th August 2022
: **Apply**: Send 300 word abstract and short biographical note to <NewHistorians@vuw.ac.nz>
: **Where**: Victoria University of Wellington – Te Herenga Waka (hybrid delivery)
: **More Information**: [https://phanza.org.nz/call-for-papers-the-new-historians-conference-2022/](https://phanza.org.nz/call-for-papers-the-new-historians-conference-2022/){:target="_blank"}.
: **Contact**: <NewHistorians@vuw.ac.nz>

**Public and applied history in the classroom: Australian contexts**
: **Event Description**: Hosted as a collaboration between the [Centre for Applied History (Macquarie University)](https://www.mq.edu.au/research/research-centres-groups-and-facilities/resilient-societies/centres/centre-for-applied-history){:target="_blank"} and the Tertiary History Educators Association (THEA, [University of Newcastle](https://www.newcastle.edu.au/){:target="_blank"}), you are invited to attend a symposium for history education academics, public historians, historians, and other interested researchers at Macquarie University Sydney City Campus, Friday, 24 June 2022. The focus of the symposium is _public and applied history in the classroom_. The aim is to investigate those pedagogies, practices, ideas and theories that are effective in teaching history in the classroom. Here, the definition of classrooms includes tertiary, secondary, and primary schools as well as classrooms that exist outside of the formal or traditional ‘four walls’ of an educational institution. The symposium will provide tertiary-based academics including history teaching educators, historians, public historians and others interested in the study and application of history the opportunity to meet, to discuss current issues, share research interests, and to discuss opportunities for collaboration into the future. Symposium presentations will be 20 minutes with 5 minutes for questions. Presenters will also be invited to submit an expression of interest to publish their presentation as a [Public History Weekly (PHW)](https://public-historyweekly.degruyter.com/){:target="_blank"} piece.
: **When**: Friday 24th June 2022
: **CFP Deadline**: Friday 25th March (250 word abstract)
: **Registration Deadline**: Friday 6th May
: **Where**: Macquarie University Sydney Campus
: **More Information**: PDF of the full CFP is available [here]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/files/cfp_cah_thea_symposium.pdf){:target="_blank"}.
: **Contact**: <thea@newcastle.edu.au>

**6th World Conference of the International Federation for Public History**
: **Event Description**: From 16 to 20 August 2022 the 6th World Conference of the International Federation for Public History (IFPH) will take place in Berlin. The German capital, which has been called the “Rome of contemporary history”, is an ideal location for a major meeting of public historians from across the globe. Like few other cities in the world it offers many different layers of history, that not only still matter and are controversial locally or regionally, but nationally and even internationally. The conference will be hosted at the [Freie Universität Berlin](https://www.fu-berlin.de/en/index.html){:target="_blank"}, where the first German MA program in Public History was established. It is located in the Southwestern part of the city. Our partners are the [National Council on Public History](https://ncph.org/){:target="_blank"}, the world’s largest public history organization, the [German Historical Association](https://www.historikerverband.de/){:target="_blank"} (VHD) and its working group on applied / public history ([AGPH](https://agph.hypotheses.org/internationales){:target="_blank"}), the [American Historical Association](https://www.historians.org/){:target="_blank"} and the [Leibniz Centre for Contemporary History in Potsdam](https://zzf-potsdam.de/en/institution/leibniz-centre-contemporary-history-potsdam){:target="_blank"} (ZZF). The full call for papers is available [here](https://www.ifph2020.berlin/_media/CFP_2022.pdf){:target="_blank"}.
: **CFP Deadline**: [15th February](https://www.ifph2020.berlin/proposal-submission/index.html){:target="_blank"}.
: **When**: 16th to 20th August 2022
: **Where**: [Freie Universität Berlin](https://www.fu-berlin.de/en/index.html){:target="_blank"}
: **Website**: [https://www.ifph2020.berlin/index.html](https://www.ifph2020.berlin/index.html){:target="_blank"}
: **Contact**: <info@ifph2020.berlin>

## Past Events
**AAPHN '21 Social Meet and Greet**
: **Event Description** We are happy to announce our first network event! We will be hosting an AAPHN Zoom social gathering. The Zoom will provide an opportunity for our members (and any individuals considering signing up) to learn more about the network and each other. We hope to provide an opportunity for members to share ideas and get to know one another and their projects.
: **When** Wednesday the 20th of October 5-6pm

## Newsletter and Communications
In addition to general membership communications and updates, we send out a newsletter bi-annually which records any upcoming events concerning public history in Australasia. If you would like to make a post about an upcoming event or would like for it to be included in our next newsletter, please contact the AAPHN team at <aaphn@mq.edu.au>. Also, keep updated on our social media, where we post and share information concerning many upcoming events. Twitter: [@aaphnetwork](https://twitter.com/aaphnetwork){:target="_blank"}.
