_pages/organisations.md, before:

---
title: "AAPHN Organisations"
permalink: /organisations/
toc: true
toc_sticky: true
toc_label: "Organisations"
toc_icon: "users"
sidebar:
  nav: network-sidebar
author_profile: false
---
Browse the many wonderful organisations that comprise our vast network of practitioners. If you would like your information/projects/organisations listed, or would like to edit your information, please contact the [Centre for Applied History](https://www.mq.edu.au/research/research-centres-groups-and-facilities/resilient-societies/centres/centre-for-applied-history) at <arts.CAH@mq.edu.au>. Browse our [people]({{ site.baseurl }}/network/), [projects]({{ site.baseurl }}/projects/) and [organisations]({{ site.baseurl }}/organisations/#a-d).


## A-D

**Australian Centre for Public History (ACPH)**
: **Description** The Australian Centre for Public History (ACPH) is a critical hub for public history in Australia. We provide a hub for history at UTS and through our research and activities, we seek to promote the practice and understanding of public history within academia and the broader community.
: **Website** <https://www.uts.edu.au/research-and-teaching/our-research/australian-centre-public-history>
: **Contact** <tamson.pietsch@uts.edu.au>

## E-H
**History Council of NSW (HCNSW)**
: **Description** The History Council of New South Wales (HCNSW) was established in 1995.  It is a not-for-profit membership association, and a registered charity.  It is supported by Create NSW through an annual grant under the Arts & Cultural Development Program, and through partnerships with large cultural organisations.
: **Website** <https://historycouncilnsw.org.au/>
: **Contact** <admin@historycouncilnsw.org.au>

## I-L
## M-P
**Professional Historians Association**
: **Website** <https://www.historians.org.au/>

**Professional Historians Association, Victoria & Tasmania (PHA Vic & Tas)**
: **Description** A thriving, dynamic community of professional historians who communicate history in diverse ways.
: **Website** <https://www.phavic.org.au/>

## Q-T
**Society of Australian Genealogists (SAG)**
: **Description** The Society of Australian Genealogists has been in existence since 1932 and our principal object is the advancement of genealogical and family history education and this is reflected in their education program and collections. They are keen to engage in collaborations with other public history practitioners and organisations.
: **Website** <https://www.sag.org.au/>
: **Twitter** [@SocAustGen](https://twitter.com/SocAustGen)

## U-Z
**Way Back When: Consulting Historians** <br />
: **Description** Way Back When is a creative, dynamic and unique team of professional historians. We work with communities and organisations to create meaningful histories.
: **Website** <https://www.waybackwhen.com.au/>
: **Twitter** [@WBWhistorians](https://twitter.com/wbwhistorians?lang=en)

Commit message:

added in new excerpts for pages missing them

_pages/organisations.md, after:

---
title: "AAPHN Organisations"
permalink: /organisations/
toc: true
toc_sticky: true
toc_label: "Organisations"
toc_icon: "users"
sidebar:
  nav: network-sidebar
author_profile: false
excerpt: >
  The AAPHN has members from a vast range of organisations with diverse goals, missions and areas of focus. Read about them here.
---
Browse the many wonderful organisations that comprise our vast network of practitioners. If you would like your information/projects/organisations listed, or would like to edit your information, please contact the [Centre for Applied History](https://www.mq.edu.au/research/research-centres-groups-and-facilities/resilient-societies/centres/centre-for-applied-history) at <arts.CAH@mq.edu.au>. Browse our [people]({{ site.baseurl }}/network/), [projects]({{ site.baseurl }}/projects/) and [organisations]({{ site.baseurl }}/organisations/#a-d).


## A-D

**Australian Centre for Public History (ACPH)**
: **Description** The Australian Centre for Public History (ACPH) is a critical hub for public history in Australia. We provide a hub for history at UTS and through our research and activities, we seek to promote the practice and understanding of public history within academia and the broader community.
: **Website** <https://www.uts.edu.au/research-and-teaching/our-research/australian-centre-public-history>
: **Contact** <tamson.pietsch@uts.edu.au>

## E-H
**History Council of NSW (HCNSW)**
: **Description** The History Council of New South Wales (HCNSW) was established in 1995.  It is a not-for-profit membership association, and a registered charity.  It is supported by Create NSW through an annual grant under the Arts & Cultural Development Program, and through partnerships with large cultural organisations.
: **Website** <https://historycouncilnsw.org.au/>
: **Contact** <admin@historycouncilnsw.org.au>

## I-L
## M-P
**Professional Historians Association**
: **Website** <https://www.historians.org.au/>

**Professional Historians Association, Victoria & Tasmania (PHA Vic & Tas)**
: **Description** A thriving, dynamic community of professional historians who communicate history in diverse ways.
: **Website** <https://www.phavic.org.au/>

## Q-T
**Society of Australian Genealogists (SAG)**
: **Description** The Society of Australian Genealogists has been in existence since 1932 and our principal object is the advancement of genealogical and family history education and this is reflected in their education program and collections. They are keen to engage in collaborations with other public history practitioners and organisations.
: **Website** <https://www.sag.org.au/>
: **Twitter** [@SocAustGen](https://twitter.com/SocAustGen)

## U-Z
**Way Back When: Consulting Historians** <br />
: **Description** Way Back When is a creative, dynamic and unique team of professional historians. We work with communities and organisations to create meaningful histories.
: **Website** <https://www.waybackwhen.com.au/>
: **Twitter** [@WBWhistorians](https://twitter.com/wbwhistorians?lang=en)
