_pages/resources.md, before:

---
permalink: /resources/
title: "AAPHN Resources"
toc: true
toc_sticky: true
excerpt: >
  The AAPHN collates a repository of scholarly, online and public resources concerning public history in Australasia. This includes information concerning scholarship and grant opportunities as well as practitioners websites.
---
This page is still being compiled (and we hope to continually update it in future), so if you would like to add published works, creative works, websites, and funding opportunities to this page, or would like suggest edits to certain pieces of information, please contact the [Centre for Applied History](https://www.mq.edu.au/research/research-centres-groups-and-facilities/resilient-societies/centres/centre-for-applied-history) at <arts.CAH@mq.edu.au>.

## Web resources

### Public History Web Resources
* An Intimate Pandemic: The Community Impact of Influenza in 1919
: <https://www.rahs.org.au/an-intimate-pandemic-the-community-impact-of-influenza-in-1919/>

* Camden History Notes
: <https://camdenhistorynotes.com/>

* Colonial Frontier Massacres in Australia
: **Description**: A map and information about massacres on the Australian Colonial Frontier.
: <https://c21ch.newcastle.edu.au/colonialmassacres/>

* Colourful Histories
: <https://colourfulhistories.wordpress.com/>

* Kalimpong Kids
: **Description**: Between 1908 and 1938, 130 Anglo-Indian adolescents were sent to New Zealand from Dr Graham’s Homes in Kalimpong, India. Most were the children of British tea planters and Indian women, and faced an uncertain future in India. Their resettlement in New Zealand was in many ways a success, but it was also characterised by silence about their heritage.
: This website is for descendants of the Kalimpong Kids, many of whom are still discovering this hidden aspect of their family history. It is also for anyone with an interest in the Kalimpong story, from which we can learn so much about memory, community and family ties.
: <http://www.kalimpongkids.org.nz/>

* New Zealand Women Historian's Forum
: **Description**: A place to connect, share and advance the work of women historians of Aotearoa New Zealand.
: <https://newzealandwomenhistoriansforum.wordpress.com/>

* RAAF P-40 Kittyhawk Accidents
: **Description**: A digital map of RAAF P-40 Kittyhawk Accidents in Australia between 1942 and 1946.
: <https://public.tableau.com/profile/chao.sun#!/vizhome/AircraftCrash_0/KittyHawkAccidents>

* Santa Cruz Trains: Railroads of the Monterey Bay Area
: <https://www.santacruztrains.com/>

* Teller of Yarns
: **Description**: A collection of real Australian stories composed by an author, a researcher of history, and a passionate storyteller.
: <https://www.tellerofyarns.com/>

* Time Layered Cultural Map
: **Description**: This resource provides tools to help humanities researchers, including historians, and anyone interested in history, to work with digital maps. Many more history datasets will be added to this resource over the coming year.
: <https://tlcmap.org>

## Bibliography

This bibliography is still under construction, so if you have anything to add please contact the [Centre for Applied History](https://www.mq.edu.au/research/research-centres-groups-and-facilities/resilient-societies/centres/centre-for-applied-history) at <arts.CAH@mq.edu.au> with either a CONSISTENTLY FORMATTED list of references or (preferably) a .RIS (e.g. EndNote) or .BIB (e.g. BibTeX)) file exported from your reference manager.

### Reference Manager Files
Download these files and import them into your reference manager of choice:
* [RIS]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/test_list.ris) (e.g. EndNote)
* [BIB]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/test_list.bib) (e.g. LaTeX and BibTeX)

### Text

* Hamilton, P., Ashton, P. and Evans, T. (2020) ‘Making Histories, Making Memories in Difficult Times’, in Ashton, P., Evans, T., and Hamilton, P. (eds) *Making Histories*. Berlin, Boston: De Gruyter Oldenbourg, pp. 1–8. doi: <https://doi.org/10.1515/9783110636352-001>.
* Ashton, P., Evans, T. and Hamilton, P. (2020) *Making Histories*. Edited by P. Ashton, T. Evans, and P. Hamilton. Berlin, Boston: De Gruyter Oldenbourg. doi: <https://doi.org/10.1515/9783110636352>.
* Evans, T. (2019) ‘Discovering violence in the family’, in Piper, A. and Stevenson, A. (eds) *Gender violence in Australia: historical perspectives*. Clayton, Victoria: Monash University Publishing, pp. 20–23.
* Evans, T. (2018) ‘Enhancing student engagement through flipping: a case study in Australian History’, *The History Teacher*, 51(4), pp. 611–638.

## Funding Opportunities

### Fellowships
* CACHE Early Career Indigenous Australian Research Fellowship - 2021 (completed)
: **Description**:
: HDR, postdoctoral or heritage/environment professional fellowship of $5000 for a dynamic and enthusiastic Aboriginal and/or Torres Strait Islander person with research skills to work with members of the Centre for Ancient Cultural Heritage and Environment (CACHE) in the fields of archaeological science, cultural heritage, and/or environmental heritage.
: **Closing Date**: Tuesday 6th July, 2021
: **More Information**: [MQ CACHE Website](https://www.mq.edu.au/research/research-centres-groups-and-facilities/resilient-societies/centres/cache/funding-opportunities)
: **Application**: Follow instructions on the [MQ CACHE Website](https://www.mq.edu.au/research/research-centres-groups-and-facilities/resilient-societies/centres/cache/funding-opportunities)

* CACHE Postdoctoral Research Fellowship (completed)
: **Description**:
: Postdoctoral fellowship of $5000 for a dynamic and enthusiastic early career scholar with research skills to work with members of the Centre for Ancient Cultural Heritage and Environment (CACHE) in the fields of archaeological science, cultural heritage, and/or environmental heritage.
: **Closing Date**: Tuesday 6th July, 2021
: **More Information**: [MQ CACHE Website](https://www.mq.edu.au/research/research-centres-groups-and-facilities/resilient-societies/centres/cache/funding-opportunities)
: **Application**: Follow instructions on the [MQ CACHE Website](https://www.mq.edu.au/research/research-centres-groups-and-facilities/resilient-societies/centres/cache/funding-opportunities)

### Grants
* Community Heritage Grants – 2021 Round (completed)
: **Description**:
: The Community Heritage Grants (CHG) program provides grants of up to $15,000 (GST inclusive) to community organisations such as libraries, archives, museums, genealogical and historical societies, multicultural and Indigenous groups. Successful CHG recipients are also given access to online workshops.
: The grants are provided to assist with the preservation of locally owned, but nationally significant collections of materials that are publicly accessible including artefacts, letters, diaries, maps, photographs, and audio visual material. The grants are also aimed at helping make these collections of materials more publicly accessible.
: **Type**: Community organisation grant
: **Closing Date**: Monday 10 May 2021
: **More Information**: <https://www.nla.gov.au/chg/guidelines>
: **Application**: Follow instructions on the [NLA website](https://www.nla.gov.au/content/community-heritage-grants-4)

Commit message:

new grant and network member

_pages/resources.md, after:

---
permalink: /resources/
title: "AAPHN Resources"
toc: true
toc_sticky: true
excerpt: >
  The AAPHN collates a repository of scholarly, online and public resources concerning public history in Australasia. This includes information concerning scholarship and grant opportunities as well as practitioners websites.
---
This page is still being compiled (and we hope to continually update it in future), so if you would like to add published works, creative works, websites, and funding opportunities to this page, or would like suggest edits to certain pieces of information, please contact the [Centre for Applied History](https://www.mq.edu.au/research/research-centres-groups-and-facilities/resilient-societies/centres/centre-for-applied-history) at <arts.CAH@mq.edu.au>.

## Web resources

### Public History Web Resources
* An Intimate Pandemic: The Community Impact of Influenza in 1919
: <https://www.rahs.org.au/an-intimate-pandemic-the-community-impact-of-influenza-in-1919/>

* Camden History Notes
: <https://camdenhistorynotes.com/>

* Colonial Frontier Massacres in Australia
: **Description**: A map and information about massacres on the Australian Colonial Frontier.
: <https://c21ch.newcastle.edu.au/colonialmassacres/>

* Colourful Histories
: <https://colourfulhistories.wordpress.com/>

* Kalimpong Kids
: **Description**: Between 1908 and 1938, 130 Anglo-Indian adolescents were sent to New Zealand from Dr Graham’s Homes in Kalimpong, India. Most were the children of British tea planters and Indian women, and faced an uncertain future in India. Their resettlement in New Zealand was in many ways a success, but it was also characterised by silence about their heritage.
: This website is for descendants of the Kalimpong Kids, many of whom are still discovering this hidden aspect of their family history. It is also for anyone with an interest in the Kalimpong story, from which we can learn so much about memory, community and family ties.
: <http://www.kalimpongkids.org.nz/>

* New Zealand Women Historian's Forum
: **Description**: A place to connect, share and advance the work of women historians of Aotearoa New Zealand.
: <https://newzealandwomenhistoriansforum.wordpress.com/>

* RAAF P-40 Kittyhawk Accidents
: **Description**: A digital map of RAAF P-40 Kittyhawk Accidents in Australia between 1942 and 1946.
: <https://public.tableau.com/profile/chao.sun#!/vizhome/AircraftCrash_0/KittyHawkAccidents>

* Santa Cruz Trains: Railroads of the Monterey Bay Area
: <https://www.santacruztrains.com/>

* Teller of Yarns
: **Description**: A collection of real Australian stories composed by an author, a researcher of history, and a passionate storyteller.
: <https://www.tellerofyarns.com/>

* Time Layered Cultural Map
: **Description**: This resource provides tools to help humanities researchers, including historians, and anyone interested in history, to work with digital maps. Many more history datasets will be added to this resource over the coming year.
: <https://tlcmap.org>

## Bibliography

This bibliography is still under construction, so if you have anything to add please contact the [Centre for Applied History](https://www.mq.edu.au/research/research-centres-groups-and-facilities/resilient-societies/centres/centre-for-applied-history) at <arts.CAH@mq.edu.au> with either a CONSISTENTLY FORMATTED list of references or (preferably) a .RIS (e.g. EndNote) or .BIB (e.g. BibTeX)) file exported from your reference manager.

### Reference Manager Files
Download these files and import them into your reference manager of choice:
* [RIS]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/test_list.ris) (e.g. EndNote)
* [BIB]({{ site.baseurl }}/assets/test_list.bib) (e.g. LaTeX and BibTeX)

### Text

* Hamilton, P., Ashton, P. and Evans, T. (2020) ‘Making Histories, Making Memories in Difficult Times’, in Ashton, P., Evans, T., and Hamilton, P. (eds) *Making Histories*. Berlin, Boston: De Gruyter Oldenbourg, pp. 1–8. doi: <https://doi.org/10.1515/9783110636352-001>.
* Ashton, P., Evans, T. and Hamilton, P. (2020) *Making Histories*. Edited by P. Ashton, T. Evans, and P. Hamilton. Berlin, Boston: De Gruyter Oldenbourg. doi: <https://doi.org/10.1515/9783110636352>.
* Evans, T. (2019) ‘Discovering violence in the family’, in Piper, A. and Stevenson, A. (eds) *Gender violence in Australia: historical perspectives*. Clayton, Victoria: Monash University Publishing, pp. 20–23.
* Evans, T. (2018) ‘Enhancing student engagement through flipping: a case study in Australian History’, *The History Teacher*, 51(4), pp. 611–638.

## Funding Opportunities

### Fellowships
* CACHE Early Career Indigenous Australian Research Fellowship - 2021 (completed)
: **Description**:
: HDR, postdoctoral or heritage/environment professional fellowship of $5000 for a dynamic and enthusiastic Aboriginal and/or Torres Strait Islander person with research skills to work with members of the Centre for Ancient Cultural Heritage and Environment (CACHE) in the fields of archaeological science, cultural heritage, and/or environmental heritage.
: **Closing Date**: Tuesday 6th July, 2021
: **More Information**: [MQ CACHE Website](https://www.mq.edu.au/research/research-centres-groups-and-facilities/resilient-societies/centres/cache/funding-opportunities)
: **Application**: Follow instructions on the [MQ CACHE Website](https://www.mq.edu.au/research/research-centres-groups-and-facilities/resilient-societies/centres/cache/funding-opportunities)

* CACHE Postdoctoral Research Fellowship (completed)
: **Description**:
: Postdoctoral fellowship of $5000 for a dynamic and enthusiastic early career scholar with research skills to work with members of the Centre for Ancient Cultural Heritage and Environment (CACHE) in the fields of archaeological science, cultural heritage, and/or environmental heritage.
: **Closing Date**: Tuesday 6th July, 2021
: **More Information**: [MQ CACHE Website](https://www.mq.edu.au/research/research-centres-groups-and-facilities/resilient-societies/centres/cache/funding-opportunities)
: **Application**: Follow instructions on the [MQ CACHE Website](https://www.mq.edu.au/research/research-centres-groups-and-facilities/resilient-societies/centres/cache/funding-opportunities)

### Grants
#### Open
* Capstone Editing Grant for Mid-Career Researchers
: **Description**:
: The Capstone Editing Grant for Mid-Career Researchers provides up to A$5,000 of seed funding for one researcher per year to undertake an innovative research project. The expectation is that the research project will gather preliminary data and lead to the development of a research council funding application.
: The grant can be used to cover any costs related to the research project, such as software or small lab equipment; domestic or overseas travel to learn new techniques or collaborate with colleagues; academic editing of the grant proposal; and data analysis.
: **Eligibility**: Must have a part-time or full-time research-only position at a research institute, university or government science agency in Australia or New Zealand.
: **Closing Date**: 24 February 2022
: **More Information**: <https://www.capstoneediting.com.au/midcareer-grant>
: **Application**: Follow the instructions on the Capstone Editing [website](https://www.capstoneediting.com.au/midcareer-grant).

#### Closed
* Community Heritage Grants – 2021 Round (completed)
: **Description**:
: The Community Heritage Grants (CHG) program provides grants of up to $15,000 (GST inclusive) to community organisations such as libraries, archives, museums, genealogical and historical societies, multicultural and Indigenous groups. Successful CHG recipients are also given access to online workshops.
: The grants are provided to assist with the preservation of locally owned, but nationally significant collections of materials that are publicly accessible including artefacts, letters, diaries, maps, photographs, and audio visual material. The grants are also aimed at helping make these collections of materials more publicly accessible.
: **Type**: Community organisation grant
: **Closing Date**: Monday 10 May 2021
: **More Information**: <https://www.nla.gov.au/chg/guidelines>
: **Application**: Follow instructions on the [NLA website](https://www.nla.gov.au/content/community-heritage-grants-4)
