---
title: "Public History in New South Wales"
author: paul and paula
header:
  image: assets/images/Paul_Ashton_Photos/DiLeeFairfieldCityMuseum2019.jpeg
  caption: "Â© Paul Ashton"
  teaser: assets/images/Paul_Ashton_Photos/DiLeeFairfieldCityMuseum2019.jpeg
excerpt: >
  Paul Ashton and Paula Hamilton trace back the practice of public history in NSW, from its early days in the 20th century to 2021.
categories:
  - "Public History"
tags:
  - NSW
  - ACT
  - PHA
classes: wide
---

The practice of public history in New South Wales (NSW) can be traced
back to the rise of the nation state. State governments began investing
more and more in developing national identities and narratives as modern
Australia evolved, particularly after 1945. Public institutions,
monuments and rituals -- including a national Australia Day -- traced
the wealth and progress of the country. They were critical in shaping
popular historical consciousness.

People such as C.E.W. Bean (1879-1968) -- who wrote *On the Wool Track*
(1910) and was vitally involved in building the Anzac legend -- became
one of our first public historians. Though without formal academic
training, Bean was a professional historian. For his generation, public
history work -- in historical societies, local museums, libraries,
landscapes and archives -- was done by amateurs.

The building and expansion of a secondary and tertiary education system
from the 1960s encouraged the rise of specialisation in History related
jobs both in and out of the academy. From the 1980s a new generation of
freelance historians emerged. In 1985 the Professional Historians
Association NSW Inc ([PHA NSW & ACT](https://www.phansw.org.au/)) was
formed. (A national body, Professional Historians Australia, was set up
in 1996.) Three years later NSW's first and by far the largest graduate
public history program in NSW was established at the University of
Technology Sydney. The course was taught by Ann Curthoys and Paula
Hamilton. They were later joined by Heather Goodall and Paul Ashton and
the [Australian Centre for Public
History](https://www.uts.edu.au/research-and-teaching/our-research/australian-centre-public-history)
was set up in 1999 to focus their projects and activities. Graduating
over 150 Masters students and dozens of doctoral students, many of these
public historians gained jobs in most of Australia's leading cultural
institutions. Others went freelance or set up their own consulting
companies.

Public history programs and subjects were also offered at the University
of NSW and the University of Sydney. Currently they are on offer at
Macquarie University and the University of New England.

Public history today, broadly conceived, is practiced in New South Wales
by a diverse range of people, groups and organisations. The PHA NSW &
ACT has around 100 members. (There are about 150 academic historians in
the state.) These public historians work in areas such as heritage, oral
history, community history, native title, official history -- histories
commissioned by governmental agencies -- corporate and institutional
history, museums, history education -- including textbook writing -- and
the media. Some are employed by government agencies such as the
[National Parks and Wildlife
Service](https://www.nationalparks.nsw.gov.au/) and the [Australian War
Memorial](https://www.awm.gov.au/). Others are employed in heritage
firms such as [GML](https://www.gml.com.au/) and [Sue Rosen
Associates](https://suerosenassociates.com/). Public historians also
work as academics, blending research and teaching with community
engagement.

Public history contributes significantly to the state's culture and
economy through, among other things,

* Cultural tourism

* Community formation and development

* Contributions to cultural institutions and infrastructure

* Memory work

* Advocacy and

* Property development through heritage conservation and site interpretation

Public historians have also had important inputs into cultural
institutions and infrastructure including the History Council of NSW and
the [*Dictionary of Sydney*](https://home.dictionaryofsydney.org/). The
refereed journal [*Public History
Review*](https://epress.lib.uts.edu.au/journals/index.php/phrj) has been
Sydney-based since it commenced publication in 1992.

So what of the future? Public history is now a well-established field in
NSW and Australia. It has a growing of body reflective and theoretical
literature, the most recent of which is [*Making Histories*
(2020)](https://www.degruyter.com/view/title/547254) edited by Paul
Ashton, Tanya Evans and Paula Hamilton. (It is the first volume in de
Gruyter's new series Public History in International Perspective.)
Public historians have a modest but significant presence in the state's
heritage industry. Many commissioned histories -- of local government
areas, corporations, NGOs, clubs, associations and industries -- are
written by public historians.

The main path for public history in the medium term lies in these types
of external activities. Opportunities will be limited in both cultural
institutions encumbered with shrinking budgets and the tertiary
education sector where the humanities is, for the moment, in decline.
The days of the lone freelancer may also be numbered. Public historians
might be better placed to work in firms or be commercially networked
with each other as well as other professionals. They need to enhance
their presence in activities that work with the past in the present. And
to ensure a stronger profile, they need to be explicit and vocal about
the social benefits of public history and to work across different
media.
